Author: Megan Grodowitz

InfluxDB is a time series database. It is optimized for the purpose of storing a sequences of data each of which has a unique timestamp. 
For example, it is heavily used for logging system metrics for large scale server deployments. 
It contains a query language similar to SQL, but with key differences due to the different database structure.

Key concepts:

* Measurement:      Whereas RDB like Oracle have tables, InfluxDB has measurements. 
                    Each database entry belongs uniquely to one measurement. 

* Timestamp:        Each measurement contains a series of timestamped data entries. 
                    For a given measurement, each database entry contains a unique timestamp.

* Field Value:      Each data base entry can contain an arbitrary number of fields. 
                    Fields are the measurement data, and can be strings, floats, integers, or booleans. 
                    It is very inefficient to query the entire database using field values.

* Tags:             Each database entry can contain an arbitrary number of tags. 
                    Tags are metadata. Tag vaues are always strings. 
                    It is efficient to query the entire database using tag values.
                    It is much better to place metadata in tags rather than encoding it in measurement names.
                    There is no point in trying to reduce the number of tags by concatenating strings. Use separate tags instead. 
                    Influx will merge tag data very efficiently within a measurement, 
                    so it is fine to have a huge series of data with the same tags over and over. 

* Retention Policy: Each database entry has a retention policy that describes how long the entry is stored (duration),
                    and, if the database in deployed over multiple nodes, how many copies of the data are stored (replication).
                    If no retention policy is given, the default retention policy -- 1 copy stored forever -- is used.

* Series:           A collection of data that share a measurement, tag set, and retention policy.
                    It is best to minimize the total number of series in the database.


Example:

- I have fifty computers in a cluster. 
- I want to store the cpu load and memory usage over time for my cluster. 
- I want to retrieve data based on the computer hostname, whether the cpu load exceeds 80%, and whether the memory load exceeds 90%. 
- I also want to be able to calculate standard deviation of cpu load and memory use.


The "cpu_load" and "memory_use" are my measurements. Over time, I will log all of may data into one of these two measurements.

The computer hostname is clearly a tag, since it is a string and I only use it to query data.

The cpu load and memory use are numeric values that I want to use in calculations, so these ought to be fields. 
I will have to query based on these values, which might become slow if my database becomes very large
... so I might also consider adding two more tags that just indicate "HI" or "LO" cpu and memory load if this becomes a problem.


Series cardinality:

If I don't use hi/lo tags, the database will contain 100 series, 2 measurements * 50 hostname tags.
If I decide to add hi/lo level tags, I will have 400 series: 2 measurements * 50 hostnames * 2 cpu load levels * 2 memory load levels.

For a point of reference, InfluxDB considers anything under 100,000 unique series to be a low load.


Inserting and Querying data:

InfluxDB has a command line interface with a query language, which really just talks back to the http API anyway. 
I am too lazy to put in all of the commands right now... maybe later. Its lunchtime and I want hummus. I really wish they had some dolmades. Or better hummus. Maybe I will just get ice cream. Or a potato. I wish they had baked sweet potato. Or sweet potato pancakes. With agave syrup and peanut butter. That would be awesome right now.
Also I am probably just going to use the Java interface most of the time...
Probably best if you can look up the interface online.
